the nymphs of the periodical cicada have
been biding their time now they march
like zombies towards the nearest tree
and start the time
at first there are merely thousands but
soon more than a billion swarm all over
the forest the biggest insect emergence
on the planet is underway
[Music]
they invade the upper branches where
they climb out of their external
skeletons and assume their adult wing
[Music]
at first they're white and soft but they
have until dawn to complete their
transformation
[Music]
after an absence of 17 years the forest
is now overrun by cicadas
[Music]
a per wellif antis now it can grow to
the size of a man's fist so rare they
can only be filmed in captivity where
their extraordinary behavior is a field
it's still a mystery as to exactly how
they track down their food but one thing
is for sure this snail has unusual taste
and revolting table manners
[Music]
it's mouth envelops and suffocates the
earth world
[Music]
it sucked down like spaghetti
for anything bigger it's got 6,000 teeth
ready to shred the next meal in the
supersaturated environment this
specialized smell is the ultimate
predator
mantids will eat anything that moves
including other mantids
[Music]
time to leave this tiny insect is now
open to attack from predators lurking in
the undergrowth whether an individual
mantis survives or not is partly a
matter of chance
whether it's spotted by a predator
[Music]
whether it turns right or left
so far it's luck is held
but this hungry jumping spider is still
in pursuit a mantis is born with
exceptional eyesight but the spiders is
even better although this young mantis
can't yet fly its long forelegs evolved
to catch prey give it reach there seems
to be no escape
[Music]
but this mantis has a surprising line in
self-defense kungfu praying mantis style
[Music]
of course it's all Bluff trying to look
bigger and confuse its enemy but it's
got away with it
[Music]
the colony concerts the entire jungle
and flush out its wildlife
[Music]
each day it sends out a silent probe
into the forest in quest of food
[Music]
it doesn't use Scouts like other ants
instead a vast search party pushes into
virgin territory
seeking out the signs of anything alive
they spread out along the 10-meter front
sweeping across the forest floor to find
prey the ants must first touch it the
irony is that this the most successful
hide-and-seek player in the forest is
almost completely blind it distinguishes
the living only by their movement
as long as an animal remains still it is
safe but the slightest twitch will give
it away
[Music]
within seconds the prey is pinned down
within minutes it's torn apart at its
joints the more the preys struggles the
more the ants engage
[Music]
right across the raid front pray of all
sizes are driven from their hiding
places
[Music]
even wasps must abandon their homes when
the ants
[Music]
everything alive in the path of the
Raiders overwhelmed by sheer numbers
[Music]
frozen solid a mountain stone wetter it
has the most extraordinary survival
technique of all
the ability to come back from the dead
[Music]
only in a specialized filming chamber
can we capture its extraordinary talent
the waiter has developed special
proteins which prevent ice crystals from
forming inside its cells a remarkable
trick for a creature whose ancestors
once lived in prehistoric warm wet
forests but when New Zealand's mountains
grew up beneath them around five million
years ago they were forced to come up
with this incredible ability to survive
near lethal temperatures defrosting uses
up a lot of energy so mountain snow
berries are a welcome sight
[Music]
the waiter needs to stock up while it
can the next Antarctic storm could be
the return of winter
[Music]
it can tolerate over 80% of its body
freezing solid and can do so day in and
day out for weeks at a time
[Music]
now where else in New Zealand does life
go to such extremes to survive
[Music]
[Applause]